---
id: 4042ff0b
section: Reading and Writing
domain: Cooler
skill: None
difficulty: Easy
difficulty_level: 1
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Easy</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p></p><figure class="table"><table class="gdr"><caption style="caption-side: top;"><p style="text-align: center;">Comfort Ratings and Temperature-Adjustment Preferences from One Survey</p></caption><thead><tr><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Participant</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Comfort rating</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Preferred temperature adjustment</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: center;">20</th><td><span aria-hidden="true">−2</span><span class="sr-only">negative 2</span></td><td>Cooler</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: center;">1</th><td style="text-align: center;">1</td><td>Cooler</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: center;">21</th><td style="text-align: center;">1</td><td>Cooler</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p></p>
<p>Nan Gao and her team conducted multiple surveys to determine participants’ levels of comfort in a room where the temperature was regulated by a commercial climate control system. Participants filled out surveys several times a day to indicate their level of comfort on a scale from <span aria-hidden="true">−3</span><span class="sr-only">negative 3</span> (very cold) to <span aria-hidden="true">+3</span><span class="sr-only">positive 3</span> (very hot), with 0 indicating neutral (neither warm nor cool), and to indicate how they would prefer the temperature to be adjusted. The table shows three participants’ responses in one of the surveys. According to the table, all three participants wanted the room to be cooler, <span aria-hidden="true">______</span><span class="sr-only">blank</span>&nbsp;</p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
and they each reported the same level of comfort.

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: C

Choice C is the best answer. The text describes the comfort rating scale: from −3 (very cold) to +3 (very hot), with 0 being neutral. Participant 20 gave a −2 comfort rating, a full three points colder on the scale than the other two participants.

Choice A is incorrect. This choice misreads the table. Participant 1 and participant 21 reported the same level of comfort, but participant 20’s comfort level was three points lower. Choice B is incorrect. This choice doesn’t use data from the table. The table only shows us one survey, so we don’t know if the participants’ ratings varied throughout the day. Choice D is incorrect. This choice misreads the table. Participant 1 and participant 21 reported the same level of comfort.
