---
id: 626a1308
section: Reading and Writing
domain: spectroscopy
skill: 2007, 2019
difficulty: Hard
difficulty_level: 3
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Hard</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p></p><figure class="table"><table class="gdr"><caption style="caption-side: top;"><p style="text-align: center;">Data Sources for Neptune Temperature Analysis</p></caption><thead><tr><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Instrument</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Observatory</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Data type</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Observation years</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">TEXES (Texas Echelon Cross Echelle Spectrograph)</th><td>Gemini Observatory</td><td>spectroscopy</td><td style="text-align: center;">2007, 2019</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">T-ReCS (Thermal-Region Camera Spectrograph)</th><td>Gemini Observatory</td><td>infrared imaging</td><td style="text-align: center;">2007, 2010</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">LWS (Long Wavelength Spectrometer)</th><td>Keck Observatory</td><td>infrared imaging</td><td style="text-align: center;">2003</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">VISIR (VLT Imager and Spectrometer for mid-InfraRed)</th><td>European Southern Observatory</td><td>spectroscopy</td><td style="text-align: center;">2006</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p></p>
<p>Julianne I. Moses and colleagues have reported that Neptune may have cooled significantly between 2003 and 2020. The team reached this conclusion by analyzing existing infrared imaging and spectroscopy data about the planet obtained from various instruments in different years<em>.</em> Of the team’s sources listed in the table, the earliest example of spectroscopy data included in the analysis was obtained in <span aria-hidden="true">______</span><span class="sr-only">blank</span></p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
2007 using TEXES at the Gemini Observatory.

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: C

Choice C is the best answer because it effectively completes the text’s discussion of Moses and colleagues’ analysis of changes in Neptune’s temperature by using data from the table to identify the source of the earliest example of spectroscopy data included in this analysis. The text indicates that Moses and colleagues analyzed infrared imaging and spectroscopy data about Neptune obtained in different years by various instruments. The table lists the observatories where these instruments are housed, the type of data each instrument collected (infrared imaging or spectroscopy), and the years in which the instruments’ observations were made. According to the table, only two of these instruments obtained spectroscopy data: VISIR at the European Southern Observatory, which made its observations in 2006, and TEXES at the Gemini Observatory, which made its observations in later years (2007 and 2019). Although two other instruments are also included in the table, they obtained infrared imaging data, not spectroscopy data. Therefore, the earliest example of spectroscopy data included in the researchers’ analysis is the data obtained by VISIR at the European Southern Observatory in 2006.

Choice A is incorrect. Although the table indicates that TEXES at the Gemini Observatory collected spectroscopy data in 2007 and 2019, the table also indicates that this type of data was collected in 2006 by VISIR at the European Southern Observatory. Because the VISIR data were collected in the previous year, the data obtained in 2007 by TEXES are not the earliest example of spectroscopy data included in Moses and team’s analysis of Neptune’s temperature. Choice B is incorrect because the table indicates that T-ReCS at the Gemini Observatory collected infrared imaging data, not spectroscopy data. T-ReCS therefore cannot be the source of the earliest example of spectroscopy data that is included in Moses and colleagues’ analysis of Neptune’s temperature. Additionally, the T-ReCS data were collected in 2007, meaning that these data were obtained later than any type of data collected in 2006. Choice D is incorrect. Although the table indicates that data from LWS at the W.M. Keck Observatory were obtained in 2003, making these data the earliest example of any type of data included in the analysis, the table also indicates that LWS collected infrared imaging data, not spectroscopy data. LWS therefore cannot be the source of the earliest example of spectroscopy data included in Moses and team’s analysis of Neptune’s temperature.
