---
id: 7c21b4b5
section: Reading and Writing
domain: 29
skill: 22
difficulty: Medium
difficulty_level: 2
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Medium</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p></p><figure class="table"><table class="gdr"><caption style="caption-side: top;"><p style="text-align: center;">Survey Results for Two Online Account Sign-in Methods</p></caption><thead><tr><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Sign-in method</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Percent of participants in the UK who chose method</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Percent of participants in Japan who chose method</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Percent of participants in India who chose method</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Biometrics (for example, a face scan)</th><td style="text-align: center;">33</td><td style="text-align: center;">29</td><td style="text-align: center;">22</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Onetime passcodes</th><td style="text-align: center;">16</td><td style="text-align: center;">8</td><td style="text-align: center;">25</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p></p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>A survey listed methods for signing into online accounts. Participants in different countries were asked to choose the sign-in method they view as most secure. The table presents data for two of the methods. According to the table, onetime passcodes were viewed as most secure by <span aria-hidden="true">______</span><span class="sr-only">blank</span></p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
33 percent of survey participants in the UK.

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: C

Choice C is the best answer because it most effectively uses data from the table to complete the text about survey results for online account sign-in methods. According to the table, 8 percent of participants in Japan viewed onetime passcodes as the most secure sign-in method. This is the only choice that correctly represents data in the table.

Choice A is incorrect because according to the table, 33 percent of participants in the UK viewed biometrics, not onetime passcodes, as the most secure sign-in method; onetime passcodes were viewed as the most secure method by 16 percent of these participants. Choice B is incorrect because according to the table, 22 percent of participants in India viewed biometrics, not onetime passcodes, as the most secure sign-in method; onetime passcodes were viewed as the most secure method by 25 percent of these participants. Choice D is incorrect because according to the table, the country in which 16 percent of participants viewed onetime passcodes as the most secure sign-in method was the UK, not India; of participants in India, 25 percent viewed such passcodes as the most secure method.
