---
id: a95075c5
section: Reading and Writing
domain: 3.9
skill: None
difficulty: Medium
difficulty_level: 2
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Medium</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p></p><figure class="table"><table class="gdr"><caption style="caption-side: top;"><p style="text-align: center;">Mean Ratings for Patients after 21 Days</p></caption><thead><tr><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Measure</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Mean rating for participants aware of taking a placebo</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center;vertical-align: bottom;">Mean rating for participants in the control group</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Global improvement</th><td style="text-align: center;">5.0</td><td style="text-align: center;">3.9</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Symptom severity reduction</th><td style="text-align: center;">92.00</td><td style="text-align: center;">46.00</td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Quality of life improvement</th><td style="text-align: center;">11.4</td><td style="text-align: center;">5.4</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p></p>
<p>To test whether a medication is effective, scientists compare outcomes for patients taking it and patients taking a placebo (a medically inactive substance). Patients normally aren’t told they’re receiving a placebo, but a research team conducted a study to see if there might be a medical benefit to telling them. The team used various measures to evaluate participants, with higher ratings indicating greater well-being in each measure. Compared to the mean ratings after 21 days for participants in the control group, the mean ratings for participants who were aware of taking a placebo <span aria-hidden="true">______</span><span class="sr-only">blank</span></p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
ranged from 5.0 to 92.00, indicating that well-being varied widely from participant to participant.

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: D

Choice D is the best answer because it most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement comparing the mean ratings for two different groups of participants in a study. The text explains that a research team evaluated the study’s participants using various measures in order to learn whether there might be a medical benefit to telling patients they’re receiving a placebo. The table shows the team’s mean ratings for participants after 21 days for three of the measures: global improvement, symptom severity reduction, and quality of life improvement. According to the table, the mean ratings were higher for all three measures for participants aware of taking a placebo than for participants in the control group. Given that higher ratings indicate greater well-being, as the text states, the mean ratings in the table indicate greater overall well-being for participants aware of taking a placebo than for participants in the control group.

Choice A is incorrect because the table doesn’t include data about individual participants; rather, it presents means, or mathematical averages, of ratings. For this reason, no conclusions can be drawn from data in the table about the extent to which well-being may have varied from participant to participant. Choice B is incorrect because according to the table, the mean ratings for participants aware of taking a placebo were higher for all three measures than for participants in the control group, not lower for two of the measures. Choice C is incorrect because it cites data from the table related to participants in the control group, not to participants aware of taking a placebo. Additionally, the mean ratings in the table for participants aware of taking a placebo are higher for all three measures than for participants in the control group. Given that higher ratings indicate greater well-being, as the text states, the ratings in the table for participants aware of taking a placebo indicate greater well-being for these participants in all three measures.
