---
id: c538954d
section: Reading and Writing
domain: None
skill: None
difficulty: Medium
difficulty_level: 2
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Medium</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p><em>Sense and Sensibility </em>is an 1811 novel by Jane Austen. In the novel, Austen describes Marianne Dashwood’s ability to persuade others of the rightness of her artistic judgments, as is evident when Marianne visits with John Willoughby, a potential suitor: <span aria-hidden="true">______</span><span class="sr-only">blank</span></p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which quotation from <em>Sense and Sensibility </em>most effectively illustrates the claim?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
“Above all, when she heard him declare, that of music and dancing he was passionately fond, she gave him such a look of approbation as secured the largest share of his discourse to herself for the rest of his stay.”

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: B

Choice B is the best answer. By showing that "any difference" in taste was quickly overcome by "the force of [Marianne’s] arguments," this choice effectively demonstrates Marianne’s "ability to persuade others."

Choice A is incorrect. This choice doesn’t effectively illustrate the claim. This choice shows that Marianne and John share an interest in music and dancing, but it doesn’t provide evidence of Marianne’s "ability to persuade others." Choice C is incorrect. This choice doesn’t effectively illustrate the claim. This choice shows that Marianne enjoys talking about her interests, but it doesn’t provide evidence of Marianne’s "ability to persuade others." Choice D is incorrect. This choice doesn’t effectively illustrate the claim. This choice shows that Marianne and John share many interests and generally agree on music and dancing, but it doesn’t provide evidence of Marianne’s "ability to persuade others."
