---
id: e1546fd6
section: Reading and Writing
domain: 0.4
skill: ≤0.03
less than or equal to 0.03
difficulty: Medium
difficulty_level: 2
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Medium</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p></p><figure class="table"><table class="gdr"><caption style="caption-side: top;"><p style="text-align: center;">Average Nitrate and Phosphate Concentrations in Seawater after Volcanic Eruption</p></caption><thead><tr><th scope="col" style="text-align: center; vertical-align: bottom;">Nutrient</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center; vertical-align: bottom;">Seawater in lava-affected area, 5–45 meters below surface</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center; vertical-align: bottom;">Seawater in lava-affected area, 75–125 meters below surface</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center; vertical-align: bottom;">Seawater outside of lava-affected area, 5–45 meters below surface</th><th scope="col" style="text-align: center; vertical-align: bottom;">Seawater outside of lava-affected area, 75–125 meters below surface</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Nitrate (micromoles per liter)</th><td style="text-align: center;">3.1</td><td style="text-align: center;">0.4</td><td><span aria-hidden="true">≤0.03</span><span class="sr-only">less than or equal to 0.03</span></td><td><span aria-hidden="true">≤0.01</span><span class="sr-only">less than or equal to 0.01</span></td></tr><tr><th scope="row" style="text-align: left;">Phosphate (micromoles per liter)</th><td style="text-align: center;">0.17</td><td style="text-align: center;">0.09</td><td style="text-align: center;">0.14</td><td style="text-align: center;">0.06</td></tr></tbody></table></figure><p></p>
<p>After a volcanic eruption spilled lava into North Pacific Ocean waters, a dramatic increase of diatoms (a kind of phytoplankton) near the surface occurred. Scientists assumed the diatoms were thriving on nutrients such as phosphate from the lava, but analysis showed these nutrients weren’t present near the surface in forms diatoms can consume. However, there was an abundance of usable nitrate, a nutrient usually found in much deeper water and almost never found in lava. Microbial oceanographer Sonya Dyhrman and colleagues believe that as the lava plunged nearly 300 meters below the surface it dislodged pockets of this nutrient, releasing it to float upward, given that <span aria-hidden="true">______</span><span class="sr-only">blank</span></p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which choice most effectively uses data from the table to complete the statement?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
at 5–45 meters below the surface, the average concentration of phosphate was about the same in the seawater in the lava-affected area as in the seawater outside of the lava-affected area.

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: B

Choice B is the best answer. The claim is that the lava freed the deep nitrate, allowing it to float upward. The table supports this by showing that there was more nitrate in the lava-affected seawater at various depths above 300 meters (the depth to which the lava plunged) than in unaffected seawater.

Choice A is incorrect. This choice doesn’t complete the statement in a way that supports the claim. The claim is about nitrate, not phosphate. Choice C is incorrect. This choice doesn’t complete the statement in a way that supports the claim. The claim is only about nitrate—the concentrations of phosphate aren’t relevant. Choice D is incorrect. This choice doesn’t complete the statement in a way that supports the claim. It doesn’t say anything about the seawater inside the lava-affected area.
