---
id: e946a32e
section: Reading and Writing
domain: None
skill: None
difficulty: Hard
difficulty_level: 3
---

# Question
<h5 class="text">Reading and Writing</h5><h5>Difficulty: Hard</h5><div class="prompt cb-margin-bottom-16"><div><p>Boldly mixing elements of poetry, fiction, drama, philosophy, and manifesto, Puerto Rican writer Giannina Braschi creates cross-genre literature that explores themes such as immigration and independence. Her works have inspired responses from individuals across different fields and in a wide range of formats, from musical compositions and a comic book to architecture and furniture design. In an essay, a student asserts that the production of these diverse creations by others is reflective of Braschi’s own approach to crafting literature.</p></div></div><div class="question"><div><p>Which quotation from a scholarly review of Braschi’s work best supports the student’s claim?</p></div></div>

# Choices


# Answer
“Braschi is the focus of a 2020 collection of essays in which fifteen scholars from seven different countries delved into the linguistic and structural patterns of her writings.”

# Rationale
Rationale

Correct Answer: B

Choice B is the best answer because it presents the quotation that best supports the student’s claim about Braschi. By describing how Braschi’s blending of genres invites her audience to think about how other art forms could also engage with literature, the quotation supports the idea that the diversity of responses to Braschi’s work reflects Braschi’s own approach to creating literature.

Choice A is incorrect because the quotation describes scholars from different countries writing essays about Braschi’s use of language in her writings; it doesn’t address how Braschi’s creation of cross-genre literature inspires diverse types of responses, which is the claim the student makes. Choice C is incorrect because the quotation focuses on the fact that Braschi studied in several different cities, which doesn’t address the student’s claim that Braschi’s creation of cross-genre literature inspires diverse types of responses. Choice D is incorrect because the quotation lists some of the authors who Braschi has written academic works about, which is irrelevant to the student’s claim that Braschi’s creation of cross-genre literature inspires diverse types of responses. 
